# Communications Lab

## Course Description
Communications Lab is a production based course that surveys various technologies including web development, sound, 2D design, digital imaging, video, effects and animation. The forms and uses of these communications technologies are explored in a laboratory context of experimentation, collaboration, and discussion. Much of class time will be spent introducing and playing with equipment and software essential to media production and contemporary storytelling. Each technology is examined as a tool that can be employed and utilized in a variety of situations and experiences. Students will gain fundamental experience thinking, writing, and producing across a variety of media. The world wide web will serve as the primary environment for content delivery and user-interaction. Principles of interpersonal communications and media theory are also introduced with an emphasis on storytelling fundamentals, user-­centered design, and interactivity. Outside of the classroom, students will work both individually and in assigned groups on a variety of assignments. Each major assignment will have a written and practical component. In sum, students will be expected to complete weekly readings, homework exercises, four major group assignments, and one final web portfolio project.

## Learning Outcomes
- Develop a fundamental skill set for producing media assets and writing across a variety of media forms
- Gain experience and confidence working with media production equipment and software
- Learn how to leverage production processes to take an idea and make it come to life
- Learn how to apply storytelling and user centered principles towards media production, writing, interaction design, and web design and development
- Learn the fundamentals of client-side web development, specifically HTML, CSS and Javascript
- Gain ability to design and develop web pages that communicate a story by leveraging media and web-based interactions
- Gain experience collaborating with others in both creative and technical processes

## 30MFF Documentation
#### Project Name: "30MFF: This is the way"
#### Project Description:
For this assignment, I had to create a webpage to showcase the video my group made for the 30MFF in-class project. The project is a video that was filmed in 30 minutes, and edited in 30 minutes. After spending some time brainstorming, our group decided to create a video of Baby Yoda using the Force to solve a Rubik's cube. In the video, Baby Yoda examines the cube before attempting to solve it without touching it (by using the Force). The cube was solved using an adaptation of stop motion where instead of all frames being taken from the exact angle there is variation. This change in perspective is similar to when you actually try to solve a rubiks cube by hand – having to turn it around and look at it from different angles.

Our group wanted to create a short film that was different, experimental but also entertaining to watch and a little mysterious. Baby Yoda and his powers are pretty well known but it has never been used in this context before. We wanted to make it appear as if he was using his strong abilities in the Force to "tackle" the Rubik's cube the way he can use it against enemies. Through this short film, we hope to create a sense of mystery and a little bit of tension that comes with examining a "foreign object" for the first time (where the highest point of tension and excitement is during the problem solving process) and a feeling of satisfaction and content once the mystery (cube) has been solved. It can also be seen as a little play on how the Rubik's cube is seen and understood by those who know how it works and those who don't. As someone who knows how to solve the cube, I may not find the cube as mysterious as those who do not understand how it works. Nevertheless, it is still a fascinating object considering the complexity and simplicity of algorithms that can be used to solve it. We also hope to demonstraste how powerful Baby Yoda's powers are by showing that he can easily solve a Rubik's cube after a few seconds of careful examination whereas most of us take much longer to learn how to solve it. He is basically showing us that "This is the way" to go. Perhaps true power is in thinking before acting.

The webpage aims to capture the feelings evoked by watching the film. It is tense and mysterious but structured and not dark or scary. It should remain light, colorful and exciting.

#### Process
In the beginning of the film, we took out time to build up some tension and mystery by using different camera angles and zoom techniques on the cube. The film opens with a shot of the cube being zoomed into with no caption or explanation to introduce the object while creating a sense of mystery. Since the cube is the first thing we see in the film, it must be important. But no explanation was offered as to why. We then transition into a shot where Baby Yoda's shadow appear to show that he has spotted the cube and he slowly creeps up to it. Movements are kept slow to aid in the tension-building process. We then played with a couple of different camera angles showing Baby Yoda investigating the cube and going through a decision process. The zoom into his ginormous eyes marks the point where he has made a decision about how he will tackle the cube and solve its mystery. The last shot before the "stop motion" with the solving process is one of Baby Yoda reaching his arms out and preparing to use the Force to solve the cube. Once solved, we aimed to create a feeling of pride and satisfaction (a "look what I just accomplished") moment by zooming out of Baby Yoda's eyes until we see the solved cube.

I wanted to create a webpage that captures the theme of the film. The design of my webpage went through many changes before I settled on this one. My first draft was very dark because I wanted to capture to darkness of space like in Star Wars. I felt like I had to try and match the theme of the Star Wars franchise. But after some time I realised it just did not complement my film and capture the experience I wanted to give. I decided to make it much lighter by matching the colour of my background to the warmness of the film color. I decided to use two shades of beige – a light one for the actual background and a darker one for the header where the menu icons are. I chose to use a hamburger icon that toggles on/off to show the links to the homepage and projects page to keep the page clean and not crowded.

I photoshopped a Rubik's cube pattern into the shape of Baby Yoda's silhouette because I wanted to fill some of the space in my website with something colorful. I thought it was appropriate to use colors of the Rubik's cube to match the object used in the film. The image (png) was saved at around 80% opacity otherwise the colors of the Rubik's cube would appear too strong. This way the beige background color can seep through it a little bit and blend the colors in better. I also pasted the name of the film "This is the way" simply because I did not like the way it looked anywhere else on the page. I did experiment with the colors, outline, font and placement words in the title before settling with a simple black design – the rest felt too overpowering.

The video was originally filmed vertically but I wanted it to appear as if it was in landscape therefore I placed 3 videos right next to each other. This was mainly because placing the one vertical video made the page look unbalanced. I purposely made the two videos on the side black and white and kept the one in the middle in color to draw attention to the main video. The ones on the side were also set to autoplay and muted so that it just seems as if it is being played in the background. Without the music, I feel the message in the video is not conveyed as well. I used that to my advantage to make make sure that having two extra videos played next to the main video will not interfere with the one I am trying to showcase much. Additionally, I added a very short description under the video to tell the story.

#### Reflection/Evaluation
Creating the video in 30 minutes was a fun but stressful process, especially when time and resources were limited and we went a little crazy with our Rubik's cube concept. The initial plan was the do stop motion properly so that each turn of a the cube was a frame. But that proved to be impossible to do in 30 minutes if you do not know the algorithm to solve it in 20 moves or less or had the right equipment to take pictures for stop motion from the exact same angle. We settled for taking images at random stages during the solving process and spinning the imperfect stop motion around by making it a part of the story.


The initial design stage of my wepage was very challenging. 
Personally, I just like when things are very clean and structured but I hope to experiment more with placing things in more adventurous ways in the future. 
